question.3




There are six basic data types in JavaScript which can be divided into three main categories:
 primitive (or primary), composite (or reference), and special data types. String, Number, and Boolean are primitive data types. Object, Array, and Function (which are all types of objects) are composite data types. Whereas Undefined and Null are special data types.

Primitive data types can hold only one value at a time, whereas composite data types can hold collections of values and more complex entities. The String Data Type
The string data type is used to represent textual data (i.e. sequences of characters). Strings are created using single or double quotes surrounding one or more characters, 

The Number Data Type
The number data type is used to represent positive or negative numbers with or without decimal place, or numbers written using exponential notation e.g. 1.5e-4 (equivalent to 1.5x10-4).

The Boolean Data Type
The Boolean data type can hold only two values: true or false. It is typically used to store values like yes (true) or no (false), on (true) or off (false), etc. 

The Undefined Data Type
The undefined data type can only have one value-the special value undefined. If a variable has been declared, but has not been assigned a value, has the value undefined.

The Null Data Type
This is another special data type that can have only one value-the null value. A null value means that there is no value. It is not equivalent to an empty string ("") or 0, it is simply nothing.

A variable can be explicitly emptied of its current contents by assigning it the null value.

The Object Data Type
The object is a complex data type that allows you to store collections of data.

An object contains properties, defined as a key-value pair. A property key (name) is always a string, but the value can be any data type, like strings, numbers, booleans, or complex data types like arrays, function and other objects. 
The Array Data Type
An array is a type of object used for storing multiple values in single variable. Each value (also called an element) in an array has a numeric position, known as its index, and it may contain data of any data type-numbers, strings, booleans, functions, objects, and even other arrays. The array index starts from 0, so that the first array element is arr[0] not arr[1].

The simplest way to create an array is by specifying the array elements as a comma-separated list enclosed by square brackets, 

The Function Data Type
The function is callable object that executes a block of code. Since functions are objects, so it is possible to assign them to variables.

The typeof Operator
The typeof operator can be used to find out what type of data a variable or operand contains. It can be used with or without parentheses (typeof(x) or typeof x).

The typeof operator is particularly useful in the situations when you need to process the values of different types differently, but you need to be very careful, because it may produce unexpected result in some cases, as 












